Something that's actually worth clarifying
as well is that for the naming conventions
for the branches, basically every
section will have three parts.
There'll be the section number, so
in this case, we're in section two, so
it'll be o2-begin, so
basically, where we start.
And then we have the exercise that
companies with it, we'll be o2-exercise,
and that's like the starting point.
And then when we wrap up, and
we've coded along, and done everything,
that will be your o2-finish, and
then we move on each section that way.
And so just know that that's
the convention for how the exercises and
code tracking is working.
Okay, so now that we've talked
about props with the options API,
it's time to get into something
a little bit more meaty,
right, which is all the other fundamentals
that come with the options API.
So when we go to the restaurant page,
we'll see here that we
have this restaurant list.
And the nice thing about this three being
rewritten with TypeScript is that a lot
of inference is happening kind of
a little bit more automatically.
So you'll notice that restaurant list
does have like what it's inferring from
the given object.
But at this point, we have no way of
really telling it that like, hey,
this is something that we wanna
actually be of type restaurant.
And so now we have another problem
though is that as we just did inside of
restaurant card, we have our typing
defined in a different file.
So the question, of course,
the first thing we need to learn is how do
we share those types between the files?
And so the easiest way to do this
especially once you're getting started
out is to create a types file
right at the root of the source.
So I'll just call it types.ts.
Now you'll see some other folder
conventions where people have a folder of
types, and then they break it down
into different modules, that's for
when you scale, and
you have the types of support that.
I don't think it needs to you don't
need to jump into that immediately, so
let's just keep it simple, and
we have this type file right here.
And so
let me actually close this real quick.
And let me bump this over, so
you can see the side by side.
So all we're gonna do is we're gonna take
this tight restaurant that we've defined,
we're gonna cut and paste it over here.
And then if you're new to doing modules
that are contained within JavaScript, all
we need to do is basically tell it that we
want to export the thing out of the file.
And so in this case,
we're exporting the type of restaurant.
Now when we say this and say this is
a good thing because what are we seeing?
We see an error because it says, hey,
you're referencing this type restaurant,
I've never seen it.
So well, how do we import it?
Similar to before,
just like we do with Prop type,
we'll insert a prop type of restaurant.
Now in my case is actually doing
an autocomplete, but sometimes you need to
actually just type it out the first time,
and then it'll know to do that.
But when I hit Enter, you'll notice
that it's automatically then importing
restaurant from the types
it's recognized it.
And so if you're also wondering about
this alias here, if you're new,
this is basically a build alias to let
you know to go straight to the root.
Because sometimes when you
have a lot of nested folders,
you get a lot of this trying to
figure out where the route is.
And so this alias here is just a way
to make your life a little bit easier.
Okay, so now that we have that,
we now have the ability to use
the restaurant type across multiple files.
So let's go ahead and
go on to restaurant's page and
see how that might work.
So the first thing we need,
we're taking a look at this, we say,
okay, we have this data object here
that has all this reactive data,
we need to actually define what
the shape of it looks like.
More importantly,
we need to learn how to actually say, hey,
how do we define this as an array?
And so typically, let's just go ahead and
let's just do a type called
DataShape real quick.
And so we know that filterText is a string
and then restaurantLists here, if
you were to think back to how we typically
define prop types, you might be tempted
to go like, it's like array, or you might
be like, maybe it's capital A array.
That's not how arrays are defined in
TypeScript, the way we do that is we
actually define what values we
expect inside of the array first.
So in case in the event that it's
an array of strings, we use a string, and
then we would have the square brackets.
And that tells you that
it's an array of strings.
And so what do we want?
We want an array of restaurants,
so how do we do that?
Well, we're gonna import type restaurant,
is that actually coming up?
Looks like it's not coming up for
me this time, but
that's okay, we'll do it like this.
And so there we go.
And then now we can go ahead and
do restaurant like this.
Save import type, this is where red
squiggly lines are a lot are very
helpful is we haven't actually converted
this file over to TypeScript yet,
that's why it's yelling at us.
And that's just probably actually why
my autocomplete wasn't even working.
So let's go ahead and make restaurant page
and add the type script attribute to it.
And then we need to make sure,
just like before,
we'll go through an import
defined component.
And then let's go ahead and
wrap our default object with
that defined component bit.
Scroll down, wrap, this is not right,
but I'll fix that later.
[SOUND] And
that can't end with a ts extension.
Okay, there we go.
And so see, like the red is
squiggly line is super helpful and
that's what we want code editor to do for
us, right, is front load that stuff.
Because while hot module reloading has
been great, it's still one more step to
have to go to your browser to
realize something's broken and
then switch back to your code editor
to figure out what's going on.
And so now we see here that,
okay, we have this shape,
we have this restaurant list
that has a bunch of restaurants.
And then actually we
have one more property,
I believe in our data,
we do we have the show new form bit.
So let me go ahead and
add showNewForm and this is a Boolean.
And so
we didn't go through this explicitly, but
I have assumed sort of some basic
knowledge of JavaScript primitive types.
So that the things we're seeing here
string, number, Boolean, object,
these are just basically
standard within JavaScript,
it's nothing custom about this, so far.
But we have learned the custom syntax for
array, and
that's an important one that
you'll probably be using a lot.
So now that we have this,
we need to actually tell what's
the shape of the data like.
And so this brings us to a question
that actually saw in the chat,
which is you'll notice that I'm using
an arrow function for the data property.
Just for context, what some of
you may be used to actually is,
let me just delete this real quick
just to make it a little bit easier.
As you may be used to it
actually being defined this way.
So it's data as a function with this
syntax, and then there's literally
an object that's being returned,
so it's a little bit longer.
There's no right or wrong,
it's just that this other syntax
is just a little bit more compact.
There we go.
There it is.
Personally,
I prefer the arrow function because it's
not that you're trying to do anything like
setting up anything within the function,
we need to use it before you return.
And so this is like a cleaner way of
just getting it done in one line.
Okay, so when it comes to defining things
in TypeScript, you wanna basically say
what is being returned because that's
what we ultimately care about.
So we can do here is we can
basically add a colon here and
see that we want to return
this shape of data.
And so that's really what you're
ultimately saying is that inside of here
you're gonna have a shape,
and what's that shape data?
Well, we have filter tags,
a restaurantList which has
a bunch of restaurants.
And so you can see here that now
when you hover over restaurantList,
it actually inherits all
the properties that come within it.
So now I'm not sure if this
will yell at me just yet.
So this here is one of the things that
Typescript makes our lives a lot better is
that if someone tries to randomly add
this property here, hello message.
You'll notice here that it's saying,
hey, by the way,
I was expecting this, and
instead you gave me this instead.
And so actually I totally forgot,
but you'll notice that here this
hovered some of you might not be seeing
this because this is a VS Code extension.
I believe, it's called like
Typescript error translator.
Gosh.
Yeah, I think it was Matt Bock
who might have had that one.
Yes, okay, it's this one.
Typescript Error Translator,
it's a great one to download cuz it's
basically an open source
effort by the team to or
by the community to make TypeScript
errors a little bit more readable so
that you're not just reading
through just mumble jumble.
And so basically,
as you see here live, it's like, hey,
this is the error message
you normally get.
And then the community says, this is how
we think what it means in plain English,
super, super helpful when
working with Typescript.
But anyhow, okay, so
this is how we define types on our data
is defining it in advance
as this sort of data shape.
I call it data shape rather than just
data cuz data is such a charged word,
I think in a lot of things,
when you're searching for things.
So given that it's this shape of the data,
I just call it data shape.